## Version

To get to know what version of curl you have installed, run

    curl --version

or use the shorthand version:

    curl -V

The output from that command line is typically four lines, out of which some
will be rather long and might wrap in your terminal window.

An example output from a Debian Linux in June 2020:

    curl 7.68.0 (x86_64-pc-linux-gnu) libcurl/7.68.0 OpenSSL/1.1.1g zlib/1.2.11 brotli/1.0.7 libidn2/2.3.0 libpsl/0.21.0 (+libidn2/2.3.0) libssh2/1.8.0 nghttp2/1.41.0 librtmp/2.3
    Release-Date: 2020-01-08
    Protocols: dict file ftp ftps gopher http https imap imaps ldap ldaps pop3 pop3s rtmp rtsp scp sftp smb smbs smtp smtps telnet tftp 
    Features: AsynchDNS brotli GSS-API HTTP2 HTTPS-proxy IDN IPv6 Kerberos Largefile libz NTLM NTLM_WB PSL SPNEGO SSL TLS-SRP UnixSockets

while the same command line invoked on a Windows 10 machine on the same date looks like:

    curl 7.55.1 (Windows) libcurl/7.55.1 WinSSL
    Release-Date: [unreleased]
    Protocols: dict file ftp ftps http https imap imaps pop3 pop3s smtp smtps telnet tftp
    Features: AsynchDNS IPv6 Largefile SSPI Kerberos SPNEGO NTLM SSL
    
The meaning of the four lines?

## Line 1: curl

The first line starts with `curl` and first shows the main version number of
the tool. Then follows the "platform" the tool was built for within
parentheses and the libcurl version. Those three fields are common for all
curl builds.

If the curl version number has `-DEV` appended to it, it means the version is
built straight from a in-development source code and it is not an officially
released and "blessed" version.

The rest of this line contains names of third party components this build of
curl uses, often with their individual version number next to it with a slash
separator. Like `OpenSSL/1.1.1g` and `nghttp2/1.41.0`. This can for example
tell you which TLS back-ends this curl uses.

### Line 1: TLS versions

Line 1 may contain one or more TLS libraries. curl can be built to support
more than one TLS library which then makes curl - at start-up - select which
particular back-end to use for this invoke.

If curl supports more than one TLS library like this, the ones that are *not*
selected by default will be listed within parentheses. Thus, if you do not
specify which back-end to use use (with the `CURL_SSL_BACKEND` environment
variable) the one listed without parentheses will be used.

## Line 2: Release-Date

This line shows the date this curl version was released by the curl project,
and it can also show a secondary "Patch date" if it has been updated somehow
after it was originally released.

This says `[unreleased]` if curl was built another way than from a release
tarball, and as you can see above that is how Microsoft did it for Windows 10
and the curl project does not recommend it.

## Line 3: Protocols

This is a list of all transfer protocols (URL schemes really) in alphabetical
order that this curl build supports. All names are shown in lowercase letters.

This list can contain these protocols:

dict, file, ftp, ftps, gopher, http, https, imap, imaps, ldap, ldaps, mqtt,
pop3, pop3s, rtmp, rtsp, scp, sftp, smb, smbs, smtp, smtps, telnet and tftp

## Line 4: Features

The list of features this build of curl supports. If the name is present in
the list, that feature is enabled. If the name is not present, that feature is
not enabled.

Features that can be present there:

 - **alt-svc** - Support for the alt-svc: header
 - **AsynchDNS** - This curl uses asynchronous name resolves. Asynchronous
   name resolves can be done using either the c-ares or the threaded resolver
   back-ends.
 - **brotli** - support for automatic brotli compression over HTTP(S)
 - **CharConv** - curl was built with support for character set conversions
   (like EBCDIC)
 - **Debug** - This curl uses a libcurl built with Debug. This enables more
   error-tracking and memory debugging etc. For curl-developers only!
 - **GSS-API** - GSS-API authentication is enabled
 - **HTTP2** - HTTP/2 support has been built-in.
 - **HTTP3** - HTTP/3 support has been built-in.
 - **HTTPS-proxy** - This curl is built to support HTTPS proxy.
 - **IDN** - This curl supports IDN - international domain names.
 - **IPv6** - You can use IPv6 with this.
 - **krb4** - Krb4 for FTP is supported
 - **Largefile** - This curl supports transfers of large files, files larger
   than 2GB.
 - **libz** - Automatic gzip decompression of compressed files over HTTP is
   supported.
 - **Metalink** - This curl supports Metalink. In modern curl versions this
   option is never available.
 - **MultiSSL** - This curl supports multiple TLS back-ends. The first line
   will detail exactly which TLS libraries.
 - **NTLM** - NTLM authentication is supported.
 - **NTLM_WB** - NTLM authentication is supported.
 - **PSL** - Public Suffix List (PSL) is available and means that this curl has
   been built with knowledge about "public suffixes", used for cookies.
 - **SPNEGO** - SPNEGO authentication is supported.
 - **SSL** - SSL versions of various protocols are supported, such as HTTPS,
   FTPS, POP3S and so on.
 - **SSPI** - SSPI is supported
 - **TLS-SRP** - SRP (Secure Remote Password) authentication is supported for
   TLS.
 - **UnixSockets** - Unix sockets support is provided.
